[15014] XML Configuration for statistics DataWriters QoS (#399)
eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs: docs/fastdds/statistics/dds_layer/domainParticipant.rst

> Enable statistics DataWriters

Reviewer: I suggest reordering the information. This section should include the information about the new method `enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile`. But there is another section (`Automatically enabling statistics DataWriters`) where the builtin statistics datawriters are dealt with. Instead of repeating here the information already explained there, it makes sense to extend also that specific section.

-----------------------------

Statistics DataWriters can be enabled in different ways.
First, the built-in creation option, by which, if a statistics topic is defined either on the `fastdds.statistics`
property policy, or on the `FASTDDS_STATISTICS_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE` environment variable.
If a statistics topic is defined on either of those ways, when creating a DomainParticipant with `auto-enable` option,

> the associate DataWriters will automatically be enabled, with the recommended statistic QoS.

Reviewer: This information is already in the documentation in the previously mentioned section.

It is possible to define specific desired QoS trough DataWriter profile on the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`
(see :ref:`xml_profiles`).

Statistics DataWriters can be enabled at run time using one of two methods: |enable_statistics_datawriter| or
|enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile|.

|enable_statistics_datawriter| method requires as parameters:

* Name of the statistics topic to be enabled (see :ref:`statistics_topic_names` for the statistics topic list).
* DataWriter QoS profile (see :ref:`statistics_datawriter_qos` for the recommended profile).

|enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile| method enables a DataWriter by searching a specific DataWriter XML profile.
On that profile, specific QoS can be set for each statistics DataWriter.
The method requires as parameter:

> * Name for the profile to be used. (see :ref:`statistics_topic_names` for the statistics topic list).

Reviewer: Depending on the design decision maybe we should include a second parameter (topic name and profile name being independent).

.. note::

>     When defined on property policy or on environment variable, the statistics DataWriters are created with recommended statistics QoS.

Reviewer: This information is already in another section. I suggest removing it.

>     Instead, when a statistics DataWriter is activated through an XML profile, desired QoS can be set,
>     but the default QoS used are the eProsima's default QoS, not the recommended statistics QoS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If a profile is defined, the QoS applied are those defined in the profile.
    For those QoS that are not specified, the default library QoS (maybe a link to the QoS section might be helpful) are applied, and not the recommended QoS for the Statistics DataWriters (a link to the Recommended Statistics QoS).
```

Enable statistics DataWriters
-----------------------------

Statistics DataWriters can be enabled in different ways.
It can be done automatically (see :ref:`auto_enabling_statistics_datawriters`).
Alternatively, Statistics DataWriters can be enabled at run time using one of two methods:
|enable_statistics_datawriter| or |enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile|.

|enable_statistics_datawriter| method requires as parameters:

* Name of the statistics topic to be enabled (see :ref:`statistics_topic_names` for the statistics topic list).
* DataWriter QoS profile (see :ref:`statistics_datawriter_qos` for the recommended profile).

> It is possible to define specific desired QoS trough DataWriter profile on the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define specific desired QoS through DataWriter profile on the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`
```

Author: Done: 1bc361c1 Refs #15014: Note.

(see :ref:`xml_profiles`).
|enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile| method enables a DataWriter by searching a specific DataWriter XML profile,
or a generic statistics DataWriter profile.
On those profiles, specific QoS can be set.

> For the creation of a Datawriter, the priority for setting its QoS is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the creation of an automatically enabled Datawriter, the priority for setting its QoS is the following:
```

> For the creation of a Datawriter, the priority for setting its QoS is the following:

Reviewer: As this only applies to the automatically enabled statistics DataWriters, maybe it can be moved to that section.

Author: Done: e1b04bb6 Refs #15014: Reubication of generic profile explanation to automatically enabling section.

* First, if a specific profile exists for the statistics topic, that one is applied.
* If that is not the case but a generic profile for statistics DataWriters exists, that one is applied.

> * If no profile is defined in XML file, the recommended statistics QoS are applied.

Reviewer: I suggest adding a link to the corresponding documentation section

Author: After commit: e1b04bb6 Refs #15014: Reubication of generic profile explanation to automatically enabling section // this line is after another explanation where a link to that section is already included. Perhaps would it be repetitive to include it here as well?

.. note::

    The generic DataWriter profile defined in the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE` XML needs to be named as
    `GENERIC_STATISTICS_PROFILE`.

> |enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile| method requires as parameters:

Reviewer: I think this can be explained before explaining the QoS priority.

Author: Done: e1b04bb6 Refs #15014: Reubication of generic profile explanation to automatically enabling section.

-----------------------------

Statistics DataWriters can be enabled in different ways.
It can be done automatically (see :ref:`auto_enabling_statistics_datawriters`).
Alternatively, Statistics DataWriters can be enabled at run time using one of two methods:
|enable_statistics_datawriter| or |enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile|.

|enable_statistics_datawriter| method requires as parameters:

* Name of the statistics topic to be enabled (see :ref:`statistics_topic_names` for the statistics topic list).
* DataWriter QoS profile (see :ref:`statistics_datawriter_qos` for the recommended profile).

It is possible to define specific desired QoS trough DataWriter profile on the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE`
(see :ref:`xml_profiles`).
|enable_statistics_datawriter_with_profile| method enables a DataWriter by searching a specific DataWriter XML profile,

> or a generic statistics DataWriter profile.

Reviewer: This is not true. The generic profile is search only in case of the builtin statistics DataWriters

.. note::

    Be aware that automatically enabling the statistics DataWriters using all these methods implies using the recommended
    QoS profile |STATISTICS_DATAWRITER_QOS-api|. For more information, please refer to :ref:`statistics_datawriter_qos`.
    However, if an XML profile is defined, the QoS applied are those defined in the profile,
    and for those QoS that are not specified in that profile, the default library QoS are applied
    (see :ref:`dds_layer_publisher_dataWriterQos` for the standard eProsima's DataWriter QoS),
    and not the recommended QoS for the Statistics DataWriters.

For the creation of an automatically enabled Datawriter, the priority for setting its QoS is the following:

* First, if a specific profile exists for the statistics topic, that one is applied.
* If that is not the case but a generic profile for statistics DataWriters exists, that one is applied.
* If no profile is defined in XML file, the recommended statistics QoS are applied.

.. note::

    The generic DataWriter profile defined in the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE` XML needs to be named as

>     `GENERIC_STATISTICS_PROFILE`.

Reviewer: Similarly, I suggest clarifying that the specific profile has to be named using the statistic topic alias (include a link to the API reference corresponding section) and, if confirmed that the topic name per se also works, indicate it so too.

Author: I have specified the need to name the profile with the topic alias. 
Now waiting for the decision for making official or not the use of the topic name instead of the alias.

Author: As decided, I have specified the behavior of this feature in 
61f9ae1d Refs #15014: Specify the behavior when enabling builtin statistic datawriters with specific QoS profile

Be aware that automatically enabling the statistics DataWriters using all these methods implies using the recommended
QoS profile |STATISTICS_DATAWRITER_QOS-api|. For more information, please refer to :ref:`statistics_datawriter_qos`.
However, if an XML profile is defined, the QoS applied are those defined in the profile,
and for those QoS that are not specified in that profile, the default library QoS are applied
(see :ref:`dds_layer_publisher_dataWriterQos` for the standard eProsima's DataWriter QoS)

> , and not the recommended QoS for the Statistics DataWriters.

Reviewer: In order to improve readability I suggest leaving the comma at the end of the previous line

Author: Done: b5f68b0c Refs #15014: Comma.

> , and not the recommended QoS for the Statistics DataWriters.

Reviewer: Maybe this could be a note

Author: Done: 1bc361c1 Refs #15014: Note.

    `GENERIC_STATISTICS_PROFILE`.

    The specific DataWriter profile defined in the `FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE` XML needs to be named using the
    same statistic topic alias or name (see :ref:`statistics_topic_names` for the alias corresponding to each statistic

>     topic) that has been used in the |DomainParticipantQos| |DomainParticipantQos::properties-api| ``fastdds.statistics``

Reviewer: Maybe a reference to the [property](https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/property_policies/non_consolidated_qos.html#statistics-module-settings) can be included, as it has been done for the environment variable.

Author: Done: f48fccbd Refs #15014: Reference to the property.
